# Contrexx Development Framework
This framework uses advanced methodologies to ensure efficient and clean development of Contrexx websites and especially their themes.

## Initialize a New Project
To initialize a new project you need to fork this repo and then clone it to your work station. Change the root folder name according to your current project then `cd` into it and run `npm install`. This will install all node modules the framework needs.
After this you will be able to run `grunt setup`. This command will install all gems and bower dependencies needed for your project and concatenate all js files pulled in through bower to the `bower.js` file in the source javascript folder. With this you are ready to start development.

## Folder Structure
The basic folder structure is defined respectively mirrored within `package.json` file. All paths needed in grunt are defined therein to make it easy for you to adapt the structure to your needs. Folder paths within grunt configuration files are all given by referencing these variables so make sure you follow the given folder structure or change your `package.json`.
To change your themes name change `themeName` in `package.json`. This automatically names your theme folder and adjusts your grunt paths.

## Grunt Tasks
Here a quick overview is given over important grunt tasks and their usage. Not everything is described and most of these tasks have been assigned to other tasks and are being run automatically.

### Default and Shipping Task
There are two basic tasks set up which allow you to build a development version or a production version. The default task is set up as development build while `grunt ship` creates the production build. The main differences between the two tasks are:
* The copied `configuration.php` file (development variables vs. production variables)
* The JSHint rules: for production the `devel` option is set to `false` to prevent commands typically used for development (such as `alert()`) from being shipped to the server. During development however these tasks can be of great use when debugging your scripts and are therefore allowed.

### Update Dependencies
To update gem and bower dependencies run `grunt setup`

### Copy Task
The copy task serves to copy files. One usage of them is to keep sensitive data out of the repository and to be able to quickly change the `configuration.php` file of Contrexx to the environment that is being used. Run `copy:local` to change to the local configuration and `copy:server` to change to the server configuration. Usually these two files only differ in the root paths given however this task makes it possible to also have different database credentials without the need to go into the config file directly. Just run the `copy:server` task before deploying to your server.

## Important File Names
A list to give you a quick overview over the filenames being used:
* Styles: style.css -> style-prefixed.css -> style.min.css
* Scripts: script.js -> script.min.js

## Processing Flow
The processing flow for the most important file types is described below.
### Jade and HTML Files
@TODO: check whether jade handles html comments correctly as they are needed to build for example the navigation list. Otherwise these files would have to be written in plain html with a seperate minification task that does not remove comments.

The `index.jade` file imports the `favicons.html` file generated by the favicons task. This file includes all links to the generated favicons. To reduce filesize our goal is to minimize all html we can. Because jade does not minify imported html the htmlmin task is run over `favicons.html` before the jade task compiles its files. Therefore the imported html is already minified and thus we reach optimal whitespace reduction. Make sure to set up the tasks correctly meaning htmlmin should always run before jade.

## Contrexx Configuration
1. Set up your local (and remote) database through phpmyadmin. Set up a new MySQL database for your Contrexx installation and create a new user for the database. The recommended way of doing this is by creating a new user and check the "Create database with same name and assign all rights" box. Make sure to put down the credentials somewhere.
2. Clone the repo into your local/remote webserver. The recommended setup is to prepare a virtual host, which uses the repo name as its domain and the `wwwroot` folder in the repo as web root. A good tutorial on setting this up on OS X can be found [here](http://mallinson.ca/osx-web-development/). Following this example you would clone the repo into your `/www/sites/` folder.
3. Open the chosen server in your browser and follow the Contrexx installation wizard. Provide your credentials when asked for them. This step sets up the correct configuration file and creates the database structure. Should you run into access rights problems in your **local** environment try running the following command on your root folder: `sudo chmod -R a+w /path/to/webroot` (be careful, only use this command on your local machine and if you can trust everyone with access to it!). Alternatively you could run `sudo chown -R _www /path/to/webroot` which assigns ownership to the `_www` apache user, however this can make working with the files cumbersome as you will have to authenticate as admin more often.
4. After successfully installing Contrexx create a `secrets.json` file in the root directory and open it. Enter all credentials you just created and installed. In the basic installation you have the ability to provide credentials for two servers (one for development, one for production). However it is possible to add further servers in valid JSON (just follow the example) if you adjust the replace task (`grunt/replace.js`) for those.
5. Make sure not to put the `configuration.php` or `secrets.json` file into any public repo as this could compromise your credentials.
6. Run `grunt replace:local` which copies your local credentials into the configuration file and `grunt replace:server` to change them to the ones for the server. These tasks are also part of the basic build tasks to create a complete local resp. server build. Also run this task after you changed something in your `secrets.json` file to update the configuration with the latest credentials.
